README.md, before:

# Homework 7: Web Scraping & Crawling
[Google document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1R7brlJZ5RxRPHROxIkNBASIBMNiufqSnUxKNg-19FLo/edit?usp=sharing)


## Homework Objectives
Familiar with website structure and crawling page
Understanding user agent concept and how to utilize it in the request

## Supporting Material
* Beautifulsoup Document
    * https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/bs4/doc
* UMSI faculty website 
    * https://www.si.umich.edu/directory
    * https://www.si.umich.edu/directory?rid=4
    * https://www.si.umich.edu/directory?rid=All

## Starter Files
We have provided you with the following files:
* hw7_part1.py
* hw7_part2.py
* hw7_ec1.py
* hw7_ec2.py

Please use these python files as a template to add your code. You can chose to use functions or not.


## Part 1 (15 points): Crawling the UMSI faculty website with cache

Define an additional function called `get_umsi_data`. The function should access each page of the directory, get the HTML associated with it, and create a dictionary named `umsi_titles` whose keys are the names of each person in the UMSI directory, each of which is associated value is that person's title, e.g. "PhD Student" or "Associate Dean of Research and Arthur F. Thurnau Professor of Information, School of Information" 
Then write out the dictionary to a file `directory_dict.json`. You might execute get_umsi_data multiple times and aggregate all the return dictionaries a dictionary.
For example, `my_dict_1 = {‘key1’: ‘value1’}` and `my_dict_2 = {‘key2’: ‘value2’}`, then the aggregate result would be `my_dict = {‘key1’: ‘value1’, ‘key2’: ‘value2’}`


### Note:
* To get data from the UMSI site, you must have the headers parameter like so in your request, so that you will not get blocked by the site:  requests.get(base_url, headers={'User-Agent': 'SI_CLASS'})
* **Please crawl one single page and make sure that works before crawling all pages**
* **Please implement cache** to prevent overwhelming crawling of the UMSI website. (The overwhelming crawling might shut down the website and then you cannot check the crawling program. **The deadline will not be extended because of the shut down problem.** Please see every query as a critical one.)
* **Start as early as possible** to prevent the above situation.
* You could crawl a single page to check your caching works and then crawling the rest of the pages.
* If you want to crawl a certain page, the url has page as its parameters. e.g. https://www.si.umich.edu/directory?field_person_firstname_value=&field_person_lastname_value=&rid=All&page=11 
You could copy paste the above url and have a sense about the relationship between the url and the web page. You could also change the number after `page=#` to see what’s going on.
We will test your code with the same website page thus it’s okay to utilize the url provided above. Yet **don’t hardcode the inputs** of the function `get_umsi_data`.

### Sample Command:
```$ python hw6_part1.py ```

### Sample `directory_dict.json`:
```
{
“Lindsay Blackwell”: “PhD Student”,
“David Bloom”: “Adjunct Clinical Associate Professor of Information, School of Information”
…
}
```



## Part 2 (5 points): Analyze the data from part 1

With the directory_dict.json you have in part 1, this program should search the data you crawl to find the number of PhD students in the directory.

### Sample Command:
`$ python hw6_part2.py`

### Sample output:
`The number of PhD students: 123`

### Note:
The number in the sample out is not correct yet it should be a number.


## Extra Credit 1 (2 points) Crawling headlines, authors, and time from Detroit Free Press

Get the first 10 headlines with authors and times from Detroit Free Press (https://www.freep.com/news/). 
Create a csv file freep.csv with each row as a news and the column includes headline, authors, and times. 

### Note:
* Ignore the banner just crawl the news below the text, “HEADLINES Updated 11:30 a.m. EST ”.
* The headline show on the homepage (https://www.freep.com/news/) will be different from a particular news page. Please get the headline in the home page.
* For the time, just published date and not include the updated date
* If there are multiple authors, it’s okay to just write one author (perhaps with “and”)
* There might have type other than news (photo gallery, for example) You just skip those type. It’s okay to have less than 10 because of skipping some news.


### Sample Command:
`$ python hw6_ec1.py`

### Sample CSV File:
```
Satellite image shows snowstorm over Michigan, Brian Manzullo, “2:41 p.m. ET Feb. 9, 2018”
Great Lakes face highest ice coverage in years, Brian Manzullo, “10:09 a.m. ET Feb. 9, 2018”
Mich. reps want to ban conversion therapy, Aleanna Siacon, “11:33 a.m. ET Feb. 9, 2018”
...
```

### Note:
* The time information is one column in the csv file.


## Extra Credit 2 (2 points): Ann Arbor Boards & Commissions

Crawl Ann Arbor Boards & Commissions and get a list of individuals ranked from most to least in terms of the number of boards and commissions they’re on. Each department has a page listing the name of individuals. You need to crawl the department listed on the Ann Arbor Boards & Commissions (https://a2gov.legistar.com/Departments.aspx). Please write out the result to file AABC.txt, in which each line contains a person name.

### Note: 
* Ann Arbor Boards & Commissions
** (https://a2gov.legistar.com/Departments.aspx) 
* It might take a while to run this program. **You can reduce the number to reduce the time** while you’re testing your code. For example, run the first 5 departments to see whether the code works. Then run the all departments to have the correct answer. **You might also implement cache** for the quicker process. (The cache is not required yet highly recommended.)

* If you find there’s a space before ‘VACANCY’, that’s because the data of the website. You don’t need to do additional handling.

### Sample Command:
`$ python hw7_ec2.py`

### Sample `AABC.txt` File:
```
 VACANCY
Jane Lumm
Jack Eaton
Graydon Krapohl
Anne Bannister
Chuck Warpehoski
...
```

## What to turn in on Canvas
A screenshot of your github repository after the last push to github (as done in previous homeworks)


## Reminder:
Be sure to commit everything (and push!) to your GitHub repo. At a minimum, your repo should include the following files, which you have modified:
* hw7_part1.py
* hw7_part2.py
* (optional) hw7_ec1.py
* (optional) hw7_ec2.py
* README.md

<!-- Add anything for your program here -->

Commit message:

Add email crawling and change the title

README.md, after:

# Homework 7: Web Scraping & Crawling
[Google document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1R7brlJZ5RxRPHROxIkNBASIBMNiufqSnUxKNg-19FLo/edit?usp=sharing)


## Homework Objectives
Familiar with website structure and crawling page
Understanding user agent concept and how to utilize it in the request

## Supporting Material
* Beautifulsoup Document
    * https://www.crummy.com/software/BeautifulSoup/bs4/doc
* UMSI faculty website 
    * https://www.si.umich.edu/directory
    * https://www.si.umich.edu/directory?rid=4
    * https://www.si.umich.edu/directory?rid=All

## Starter Files
We have provided you with the following files:
* hw7_part1.py
* hw7_part2.py
* hw7_ec1.py
* hw7_ec2.py

Please use these python files as a template to add your code. You can chose to use functions or not.


## Part 1 (15 points): Crawling the UMSI member (faculty, phD, staff) website with cache

Define an additional function called `get_umsi_data`. The function should access each page of the directory, get the HTML associated with it, and create a dictionary named `umsi_titles` whose keys are the names of each person in the UMSI directory, each of which is associated value is that person's title and their emails, e.g. "PhD Student" and ackerm@umich.edu or "Associate Dean of Research and Arthur F. Thurnau Professor of Information, School of Information" and eadar@umich.edu.
Then write out the dictionary to a file `directory_dict.json`. You might execute get_umsi_data multiple times and aggregate all the return dictionaries a dictionary.
For example, `my_dict_1 = {‘key1’: ‘value1’}` and `my_dict_2 = {‘key2’: ‘value2’}`, then the aggregate result would be `my_dict = {‘key1’: ‘value1’, ‘key2’: ‘value2’}`


### Note:
* To get data from the UMSI site, you must have the headers parameter like so in your request, so that you will not get blocked by the site:  requests.get(base_url, headers={'User-Agent': 'SI_CLASS'})
* **Please crawl one single page and make sure that works before crawling all pages**
* **Please implement cache** to prevent overwhelming crawling of the UMSI website. (The overwhelming crawling might shut down the website and then you cannot check the crawling program. **The deadline will not be extended because of the shut down problem.** Please see every query as a critical one.)
* **Start as early as possible** to prevent the above situation.
* You could crawl a single page to check your caching works and then crawling the rest of the pages.
* If you want to crawl a certain page, the url has page as its parameters. e.g. https://www.si.umich.edu/directory?field_person_firstname_value=&field_person_lastname_value=&rid=All&page=11 
You could copy paste the above url and have a sense about the relationship between the url and the web page. You could also change the number after `page=#` to see what’s going on.
We will test your code with the same website page thus it’s okay to utilize the url provided above. Yet **don’t hardcode the inputs** of the function `get_umsi_data`.
* The content of names, titles, and emails in the sample json files are fake.

### Sample Command:
```$ python hw6_part1.py ```

### Sample `directory_dict.json`:
```
{
“Lindsay Blackwell”: {“title”: “PhD Student”, “email”: eadar@umich.edu},

“David Bloom”: {“title”: “Adjunct Clinical Associate Professor of Information, School of Information”, “email”: “ackerm@umich.edu” },
…
}
```



## Part 2 (5 points): Analyze the data from part 1

With the directory_dict.json you have in part 1, this program should search the data you crawl to find the number of PhD students in the directory.

### Sample Command:
`$ python hw6_part2.py`

### Sample output:
`The number of PhD students: 123`

### Note:
The number in the sample out is not correct yet it should be a number.


## Extra Credit 1 (2 points) Crawling headlines, authors, and time from Detroit Free Press

Get the first 10 headlines with authors and times from Detroit Free Press (https://www.freep.com/news/). 
Create a csv file freep.csv with each row as a news and the column includes headline, authors, and times. 

### Note:
* Ignore the banner just crawl the news below the text, “HEADLINES Updated 11:30 a.m. EST ”.
* The headline show on the homepage (https://www.freep.com/news/) will be different from a particular news page. Please get the headline in the home page.
* For the time, just published date and not include the updated date
* If there are multiple authors, it’s okay to just write one author (perhaps with “and”)
* There might have type other than news (photo gallery, for example) You just skip those type. It’s okay to have less than 10 because of skipping some news.


### Sample Command:
`$ python hw6_ec1.py`

### Sample CSV File:
```
Satellite image shows snowstorm over Michigan, Brian Manzullo, “2:41 p.m. ET Feb. 9, 2018”
Great Lakes face highest ice coverage in years, Brian Manzullo, “10:09 a.m. ET Feb. 9, 2018”
Mich. reps want to ban conversion therapy, Aleanna Siacon, “11:33 a.m. ET Feb. 9, 2018”
...
```

### Note:
* The time information is one column in the csv file.


## Extra Credit 2 (2 points): Ann Arbor Boards & Commissions

Crawl Ann Arbor Boards & Commissions and get a list of individuals ranked from most to least in terms of the number of boards and commissions they’re on. Each department has a page listing the name of individuals. You need to crawl the department listed on the Ann Arbor Boards & Commissions (https://a2gov.legistar.com/Departments.aspx). Please write out the result to file AABC.txt, in which each line contains a person name.

### Note: 
* Ann Arbor Boards & Commissions
** (https://a2gov.legistar.com/Departments.aspx) 
* It might take a while to run this program. **You can reduce the number to reduce the time** while you’re testing your code. For example, run the first 5 departments to see whether the code works. Then run the all departments to have the correct answer. **You might also implement cache** for the quicker process. (The cache is not required yet highly recommended.)

* If you find there’s a space before ‘VACANCY’, that’s because the data of the website. You don’t need to do additional handling.

### Sample Command:
`$ python hw7_ec2.py`

### Sample `AABC.txt` File:
```
 VACANCY
Jane Lumm
Jack Eaton
Graydon Krapohl
Anne Bannister
Chuck Warpehoski
...
```

## What to turn in on Canvas
A screenshot of your github repository after the last push to github (as done in previous homeworks)


## Reminder:
Be sure to commit everything (and push!) to your GitHub repo. At a minimum, your repo should include the following files, which you have modified:
* hw7_part1.py
* hw7_part2.py
* (optional) hw7_ec1.py
* (optional) hw7_ec2.py
* README.md

<!-- Add anything for your program here -->
